# [Gold V] 문자열 변환 - 10453 

[문제 링크](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/10453) 

### 성능 요약

메모리: 3488 KB, 시간: 52 ms

### 분류

문자열, 애드 혹

### 제출 일자

2026년 4월 10일 19:58:47

### 문제 설명

<p>A string is called to be well-formed if it can be generated by the following rules:</p>

<ol style="list-style-type:lower-alpha">
	<li><code>ab</code> is a well-formed string.</li>
	<li>If <code>S</code> is a well-formed string, <code>aSb</code> is also well-formed.</li>
	<li>If <code>S</code> and <code>T</code> are well-formed strings, <code>ST</code> is also well-formed.</li>
</ol>

<p>For example, <code>aabbabab</code>, <code>abababab</code>, and <code>aaaabbbb</code> are well-formed strings.</p>

<p>For two well-formed strings, A and B, we want to transform A into B by performing successively the operation of exchanging adjacent characters. After performing each operation, the string should be well-formed. Let A = <code>aabbabab</code> and B = <code>aaaabbbb</code>. Then A can be transformed into B by five operations as follows:</p>

<p><code>aabba<u>ba</u>b</code> → <code>aab<u>ba</u>abb</code> → <code>aaba<u>ba</u>bb</code> → <code>aa<u>ba</u>abbb</code> → <code>aaa<u>ba</u>bbb</code> → <code>aaaabbbb</code>.</p>

<p>Given two well-formed strings, A and B, you have to find the minimum number of operations which are needed for transforming A into B.</p>

### 입력 

 <p>Your program is to read from standard input. The input consists of T test cases. The number of test cases T is given in the first line of the input. Each test case consists of a line containing two well-formed strings A and B which are separated by a single space. The length of A is the same as the length of B, and is at least 2 and at most 100,000.</p>

### 출력 

 <p>Your program is to write to standard output. Print exactly one line for each test case. The line should contain the minimum number of the operations which are needed for transforming A into B. If the transformation is impossible, print -1.</p>

